A table is an organized collection of data stored in the form of rows and columns. Columns can be categorized as vertical and rows as horizontal.
The columns in a table are called fields while the rows can be referred to as records.

The PRIMARY KEY constraint uniquely identifies each row in a table. It must contain UNIQUE values and has an implicit NOT NULL constraint.
A table in SQL is strictly restricted to have one and only one primary key, which is comprised of single or multiple fields (columns).

Constraints are used to specify the rules concerning data in the table. It can be applied for single or multiple fields in an SQL table during the creation of the table or after creating using the ALTER TABLE command. The constraints are:

NOT NULL - Restricts NULL value from being inserted into a column.
CHECK - Verifies that all values in a field satisfy a condition.
DEFAULT - Automatically assigns a default value if no value has been specified for the field.
UNIQUE - Ensures unique values to be inserted into the field.
INDEX - Indexes a field providing faster retrieval of records.
PRIMARY KEY - Uniquely identifies each record in a table.
FOREIGN KEY - Ensures referential integrity for a record in another table.

A FOREIGN KEY comprises of single or collection of fields in a table that essentially refers to the PRIMARY KEY in another table.
Foreign key constraint ensures referential integrity in the relation between two tables.
The table with the foreign key constraint is labeled as the child table, and the table containing the candidate key is labeled as the referenced or parent table.

(INNER) JOIN: Retrieves records that have matching values in both tables involved in the join. This is the widely used join for queries.
LEFT (OUTER) JOIN: Retrieves all the records/rows from the left and the matched records/rows from the right table.
RIGHT (OUTER) JOIN: Retrieves all the records/rows from the right and the matched records/rows from the left table.
FULL (OUTER) JOIN: Retrieves all the records where there is a match in either the left or right table.

A self JOIN is a case of regular join where a table is joined to itself based on some relation between its own column(s). 
Self-join uses the INNER JOIN or LEFT JOIN clause and a table alias is used to assign different names to the table within the query.

Cross join can be defined as a cartesian product of the two tables included in the join. 
The table after join contains the same number of rows as in the cross-product of the number of rows in the two tables.
If a WHERE clause is used in cross join then the query will work like an INNER JOIN.

A subquery is a query within another query, also known as a nested query or inner query. It is used to restrict or enhance the data to be queried by the main query, thus restricting or enhancing the output of the main query respectively. For example, here we fetch the contact information for students who have enrolled for the maths subject:

SELECT name, email, mob, address
FROM myDb.contacts
WHERE roll_no IN (
 SELECT roll_no
 FROM myDb.students
 WHERE subject = 'Maths');

WHERE clause in SQL is used to filter records that are necessary, based on specific conditions.

ORDER BY clause in SQL is used to sort the records based on some field(s) in ascending (ASC) or descending order (DESC).
SELECT *
FROM myDB.students
WHERE graduation_year = 2019
ORDER BY studentID DESC;

GROUP BY clause in SQL is used to group records with identical data and can be used in conjunction with some aggregation functions to produce summarized results from the database.

HAVING clause in SQL is used to filter records in combination with the GROUP BY clause. It is different from WHERE, since the WHERE clause cannot filter aggregated records.

SELECT COUNT(studentId), country
FROM myDB.students
WHERE country != "INDIA"
GROUP BY country
HAVING COUNT(studentID) > 5;

The UNION operator combines and returns the result-set retrieved by two or more SELECT statements. Union by dault doesnt include duplicates, use UNION ALL for duplicates.

The MINUS operator in SQL is used to remove duplicates from the result-set obtained by the second SELECT query from the result-set obtained by the first SELECT query and then return the filtered results from the first.

The INTERSECT clause in SQL combines the result-set fetched by the two SELECT statements where records from one match the other and then returns this intersection of result-sets.

Certain conditions need to be met before executing either of the above statements in SQL -

Each SELECT statement within the clause must have the same number of columns

The columns must also have similar data types
The columns in each SELECT statement should necessarily have the same order

SELECT name FROM Students   /* Fetch the union of queries */
UNION
SELECT name FROM Contacts;

SELECT name FROM Students   /* Fetch the union of queries with duplicates*/
UNION ALL
SELECT name FROM Contacts;

SELECT name FROM Students   /* Fetch names from students */
MINUS     /* that aren't present in contacts */
SELECT name FROM Contacts;

SELECT name FROM Students   /* Fetch names from students */
INTERSECT    /* that are present in contacts as well */
SELECT name FROM Contacts;

An aggregate function performs operations on a collection of values to return a single scalar value. 
Aggregate functions are often used with the GROUP BY and HAVING clauses of the SELECT statement. Following are the widely used SQL aggregate functions:

AVG() - Calculates the mean of a collection of values.
COUNT() - Counts the total number of records in a specific table or view.
MIN() - Calculates the minimum of a collection of values.
MAX() - Calculates the maximum of a collection of values.
SUM() - Calculates the sum of a collection of values.
FIRST() - Fetches the first element in a collection of values.
LAST() - Fetches the last element in a collection of values.
Note: All aggregate functions described above ignore NULL values except for the COUNT function.

A scalar function returns a single value based on the input value. Following are the widely used SQL scalar functions:

LEN() - Calculates the total length of the given field (column).
UCASE() - Converts a collection of string values to uppercase characters.
LCASE() - Converts a collection of string values to lowercase characters.
MID() - Extracts substrings from a collection of string values in a table.
CONCAT() - Concatenates two or more strings.
RAND() - Generates a random collection of numbers of a given length.
ROUND() - Calculates the round-off integer value for a numeric field (or decimal point values).
NOW() - Returns the current date & time.
FORMAT() - Sets the format to display a collection of values.
34. What is User-defined function? What are its vari

SQL pattern matching provides for pattern search in data if you have no clue as to what that word should be. 
This kind of SQL query uses wildcards to match a string pattern, rather than writing the exact word. 
The LIKE operator is used in conjunction with SQL Wildcards to fetch the required information.

Using the % wildcard to perform a simple search
The % wildcard matches zero or more characters of any type and can be used to define wildcards both before and after the pattern. Search a student in your database with first name beginning with the letter K:

SELECT *
FROM students
WHERE first_name LIKE 'K%'
Omitting the patterns using the NOT keyword
Use the NOT keyword to select records that don't match the pattern. This query returns all students whose first name does not begin with K.

SELECT *
FROM students
WHERE first_name NOT LIKE 'K%'
Matching a pattern anywhere using the % wildcard twice
Search for a student in the database where he/she has a K in his/her first name.

SELECT *
FROM students
WHERE first_name LIKE '%Q%'
Using the _ wildcard to match pattern at a specific position
The _ wildcard matches exactly one character of any type. It can be used in conjunction with % wildcard. This query fetches all students with letter K at the third position in their first name.

SELECT *
FROM students
WHERE first_name LIKE '__K%'
Matching patterns for a specific length
The _ wildcard plays an important role as a limitation when it matches exactly one character. It limits the length and position of the matched results. For example - 

SELECT *   /* Matches first names with three or more letters */
FROM students
WHERE first_name LIKE '___%'

SELECT *   /* Matches first names with exactly four characters */
FROM students
WHERE first_name LIKE '____'


Select Query as part of SQL NOT IN
Syntax:

SELECT Column(s) FROM table_name WHERE column NOT IN (SELECT Statement);
Using the above-mentioned syntax, we can use SELECT statement for providing values as part of the IN operator. We will understand the above-mentioned syntax in more detail through some examples. Let’s consider the earlier defined Product and Supplier table for example purpose. Scenario: Get the price of the product where the supplier is not ABC. Query:

SELECT ProductPrice FROM Product WHERE ProductName NOT IN 
    (SELECT ProductName FROM Supplier WHERE SupplierName = "ABC");

You can also give a comma seperated list of values in parenthesis for the NOT IN clause
